# React Easy Peasy State Management
This repo is an adaptation of [Easy Peasy React State Management](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cSUt8b2qapM&list=PLillGF-RfqbY3c2r0htQyVbDJJoBFE6Rb&index=15&pp=iAQB) by Brad Traversy. 

I followed the tutorial to learn followings:
- Easy Peasy is a **Wrapper for Redux**.
- **Simplified syntax:** Actions, state, and effects are all declared in one object — no need to set up reducers manually.
- **Built-in Immer:** You can mutate state directly (e.g. `state.todos.push(...)`), but it still stays immutable under the hood.
- **Less boilerplate:**	No `combineReducers`, `switch` statements, or action type constants. Just clean functions.
- **Async is easy:** `thunk` support is built-in and easy to use.
- **Great for small to medium apps:** Quick setup, clear logic, great for teams that want productivity.

## Getting Started

1. Download and Install **Node.js**
2. Open project folder in VSCode Integrated Terminal

3. Install Vite on terminal:
    - Run `npm create vite@latest .`
    - Select `React` & Enter
    - Select `JavaScript` & Enter

4. Update `vite.config.js` file:
    - Add `server` to `defineConfig()`:
        ```
        server: { 
            port: 3000
        }
        ```
        
5. Install dependencies: Open terminal and run `npm install`

6. Install packages:
    ```
    npm i @fortawesome/fontawesome-free easy-peasy uuid
    ```

7. Install **Redux Dev Tools** browser extension
8. Delete: `public/vite.svg`, `src/assets`, `src/index.css`
9. Modify `src/App.jsx` and `src/main.jsx`
10. Run frontend server with: `npm run dev`


## Inspecting with Redux Dev Tools browser extension
1. Open the app
2. Open the extension on the browser: Press **F12** and select **Redux**
3. Select `State` > `Tree` > to see as expandable `todos` 

### Toggle Action
1. Click on a Todo `<span>`
2. Click on triggered action `@action.toggle`
3. Select `Diff` > `Tree` > to see as expandable `todos` 
4. Expand the item inside `todos` item to see:
    - `completed(pin): true => false` or
    - `completed(pin): false => true`

### Remove Action
1. Click on a Todo delete (trash can) icon
2. Click on triggered action `@action.remove`
3. Select `Diff` > `Tree` > to see as expandable `todos` 
4. Expand `todos` to see the deleted item

### Add Action
1. Type a new todo on the text input field and click `Add Todo` button
2. Select `State` > `Tree` > `todos`
3. See newly added todo in the expanded `todos` list
4. Expand the new todo (at the bottom) to see its `title`, `completed` status and the `id` (generated by `uuid`)

### `fetchTodos` Thunk
After fetching data from API, check for following actions: 
- `@thunk.fetchTodos(start)`   
- `@thunk.fetchTodos(success)`   


## When to choose Easy Peasy
- Quick **prototypes** or **solo projects**
- Team of beginners or juniors

## When to choose pure Redux
- **Learning Redux fundamentals:** Start with pure Redux to understand the core ideas.
- **Complex or enterprise-scale apps:** Stick with Redux for flexibility, tooling, and ecosystem.
- Need to use **Redux DevTools**, **custom middleware**, etc.


## Credits
Original tutorial: [Easy Peasy React State Management](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cSUt8b2qapM&list=PLillGF-RfqbY3c2r0htQyVbDJJoBFE6Rb&index=15&pp=iAQB) — Brad Traversy.

## License
MIT License